Have you ever felt nervous before speaking in front of a group, or gone blank during a presentation? Stage fright is very common — even for people who perform for a living! But stage fright certainly doesn’t have to prevent you from meeting your goals. You've already learned how important the sharing stage is during the design process; in order to present your research or design ideas to stakeholders, you may have to give a presentation on your own. 

Here are some tips for overcoming stage fright, whether you're giving a short talk to your team or presenting your designs to a crowd.

A group of 4 graphics/icons with related text to the rightFirst icon is a person standing and looking at themselves in the mirror. Text reads: Prepare. Knowing what you want to say and how you want to say it will help you feel less overwhelmed when it's time to present. Finalize your presentation and practice it many times before the big day, so you feel comfortable with the content. 

Next icon is a smiling cartoon brain. Next to it reads: Think positively. Visualize yourself giving an awesome presentation. Don't spend time worrying about everything that could go wrong or what mistakes you might make. Instead, focus on nailing it and imagine the feeling of triumph when the presentation lands well. 

Next icon is a person standing, smiling with their hands on their hips. Text reads: Try a power pose. A power pose is a posture that helps you stay positive and confident. The most well-known poser pose is called The Wonder Woman, where you stand tall with your chest out and your hands on your hips. Search for videos of Amy Cuddy giving TED talks about power poses to learn more. 

Final icon is a profile of a person's face, and lines indicating air is coming out of their mouth. Next to it reads: Don't hold your breath. Take deep, steady breaths as you prepare for your presentation. This helps reduce anxiety and keep oxygen flowing.
Three sections of text, each with a graphic icon to the leftFirst icon is a person sleeping; to the right, it reads: Get a good night's sleep. Being well rested will allow you to approach the stage -- or the front of a meeting room -- with a clear mind. A full sleep can also help you concentrate during your presentation. Second icon is a checkered flag; to the right, it reads: Remember the goal. You're giving a presentation to share information. The audience will be focused on getting the information they need, not watching any immediate mistakes you might make. Third icon is a person resting their head in their hands. Next to it, it reads: Know that it's okay to make mistakes. Tripping over words or taking a moment to gather your thoughts is not a big deal. Most people have given presentations themselves, so the audience will understand what it's like if you stumble or pause. Stay relaxed as you move through imperfections.
You can do this! With some practice and dedication, you can overcome stage fright and become a great public speaker, too. Stay confident in your abilities and keep practicing. And who knows, you might even give a TED Talk on UX design some day!